Teagasc has organised a webinar to explain its agriculture and horticulture apprenticeships programme to potential future apprentices.
2026 will see the fourth intake of apprentices to the Agriculture and Horticulture apprenticeship programmes that are ran in three Teagasc colleges.
Potential future apprentices have been invited to join a webinar to learn more about the apprenticeship programmes at the College of Amenity Horticulture in Dublin, Kildalton Agricultural and Horticultural College in Co. Kilkenny, and Clonakilty Agricultural College in Co. Cork.
Teagasc said this "earn and learn" model of training is part of the "new breed of apprenticeships" that have come on stream in the last 10 years involving SOLAS and the industry.
The first graduates from agriculture and horticulture apprenticeships emerged with their qualifications in the last month.
Teagasc will host a webinar on Thursday, March 19, from 11:00a.m to 12:00p.m on apprenticeships in agriculture and horticulture. All interested persons are invited to join.
The online event will bring together recent graduates, tutors, and employers to explain how these programmes combine practical workplace learning with classroom-based modules to create clear career pathways and strengthen skills in the agriculture and horticulture sectors.
Commenting on the apprenticeship programme, John Mulhern, principal at the College of Amenity Horticulture, said: "Attendees will hear how the apprenticeships blend hands-on, on-farm and on-site experience with nationally recognised technical, digital and sustainability-focused modules delivered in Teagasc colleges.
"The webinar will outline curriculum structure, employer and mentor responsibilities, supports available to participating businesses, and progression routes for learners; including opportunities for existing workers to upskill while earning a wage," Mulhern added.
Teagasc said the webinar will feature a live questions and answers session that will allow employers, prospective apprentices, and training providers to raise queries about hosting or applying for an apprenticeship.
The webinar will be hosted by Deirdre Walsh, education strategy project manager and assistant college principal at the College of Amenity Horticulture.
The panellists and topics for the webinar include:
